fix(gatsby): Add self-signed cert to node trust store (https) (#18703)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/local-https.md

Start the development server using `npm run develop` as usual, and add either the `-S` or `--https` flag.

```shell
$ npm run develop -- --https
```

## Setup

When setting up a development SSL certificate for the first time, you may be asked to type in your password after starting the development environment:

```text
info setting up SSL certificate (may require elevated permissions/sudo)

Password:
```

On windows, the prompt will differ:

```text
A password is required to access the secure certificate authority key
used for signing certificates.

If this is the first time this has run, then this is to set the password
for future use.  If any new certificates are signed later, you will need
to use this same password.

Please enter the CA password:
```

> This is _only_ required the first time you are using Gatsby's HTTPS feature on your machine, and when you are creating a brand new certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The password is _only_ required the first time you are using Gatsby's HTTPS feature on your machine, or when you are creating a brand new certificate.
```

After typing in your password, `devcert` will install the CA certificate in your operating system trusted certs store. A utility called `certutil` will be needed to update the trust store for various browsers; specifically: Firefox, and Chrome (when it's running on Linux).

### In case `certutil` is not installed on your machine

`devcert` is configured to install `certutil` automatically, unless you're running Windows. If an automatic install is not successful, you may need to install it manually.

- To install `certutil`, you need to install the `nss tools` package(s). The exact procedure will differ depending on your operating system.

>   - On a linux OS, you should be able to simply run one of the following, depending on the flavor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - On a linux OS, you should be able to run one of the following, depending on your Linux distro:
```

    ```shell
    # Debian based (Ubuntu)
    sudo apt install libnss3-tools

    # RHEL based (Fedora)
    sudo yum install nss-tools

    # OpenSuse
    sudo zypper install mozilla-nss-tools
    ```

  - On MacOS, you should be able to run:

    ```shell
    brew install nss
    ```

>   - With regards to Windows: There's not too many precompiled libraries out there, so the only option would be to go searching for one, or compile it yourself. Because of how difficult Windows makes it, `devcert` will not even try to update the Firefox trust store automatically; instead, it will fallback to using the "Firefox wizard", detailed below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - With regards to Windows: Precompiled libraries are rare, so you may need to compile it yourself. Because of how difficult Windows makes it, `devcert` will not attempt to update the Firefox trust store automatically; instead, it will fall back to using the "Firefox wizard", detailed below.
```

    ```

  - If you have Firefox installed, `devcert` will try to utilize Firefox itself to trust the certificate

    ```text
    devcert was unable to automatically configure Firefox. You'll need to
    complete this process manually. Don't worry though - Firefox will walk
    you through it.

    When you're ready, hit any key to continue. Firefox will launch and
    display a wizard to walk you through how to trust the devcert
    certificate. When you are finished, come back here and we'll finish up.
    (If Firefox doesn't start, go ahead and start it and navigate to
    http://localhost:52175 in a new tab.)

    If you are curious about why all this is necessary, check out
    https://github.com/davewasmer/devcert#how-it-works
    <Press any key to launch Firefox wizard>
    ```

    - You can press enter here, and it will launch Firefox for you.

    - If you wish to have trust support on Firefox, tell the point-and-click wizard `this certificate can identify websites`, and click OK. Otherwise, you may hit cancel and close the browser, then key return to finish building. **Reminder: you'll only need to do this once per machine.**

### After `devcert` setup process

> You can open the development server at [https://localhost:8000](https://localhost:8000) and enjoy the HTTPS goodness ✨. Of course, you may change the port according to your setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can open the development server at `https://localhost:8000` and enjoy the HTTPS goodness ✨. Of course, you may change the port according to your setup.
```

Find out more about [how devcert works](https://github.com/davewasmer/devcert#how-it-works).

### Management of certificates generated by devcert

> If you want to do some maintenance/cleanup of the certificates generated by `devcert`, please refer to [devcert-cli](https://github.com/davewasmer/devcert-cli/blob/master/README.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to do some maintenance/cleanup of the certificates generated by `devcert`, please refer to the [devcert-cli](https://github.com/davewasmer/devcert-cli/blob/master/README.md)
```

Author: Should I maybe add "documentation" here?  "The" feels a bit weird here.

So, 
`refer to the [devcert-cli documentation]`
or
`refer to the [devcert-cli project]`

Reviewer 2: Since cli stands for command line interface "the devcert-cli" should be accurate.

- `--cert-file` [relative/absolute path to ssl certificate file]
- `--key-file` [relative/absolute path to ssl key file]
- `--ca-file` [relative/absolute path to ssl certificate authority file]

See the example commands below:

- Using `npm run develop`

  ```shell
  # Using relative paths
  $ npm run develop -- --https --key-file ../relative/path/to/key.key --cert-file ../relative/path/to/cert.crt --ca-file ../relative/path/to/ca.crt

  # Or using absolute paths
  $ npm run develop -- --https --key-file /absolute/path/to/key.key --cert-file /absolute/path/to/cert.crt --ca-file /absolute/path/to/ca.crt
  ```

- Alternatively, you can run the development server using the gatsby cli

  ```shell
  # Using relative paths
  $ gatsby develop --https --key-file ../relative/path/to/key.key --cert-file ../relative/path/to/cert.crt --ca-file ../relative/path/to/ca.crt

  # Or using absolute paths
  $ gatsby develop --https --key-file /absolute/path/to/key.key --cert-file /absolute/path/to/cert.crt --ca-file /absolute/path/to/ca.crt
  ```

Usage of the `--ca-file` flag is only required if your certificate is signed by a certificate authority.

> If your certificate is self-signed, then do not include the `--ca-file` flag. Also, if you want your browser to trust a self-signed certificate, you will need to add it to your operating system (or browser's, in Firefox's case) root certificate store in order for your browser to trust it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your certificate is self-signed, then do not include the `--ca-file` flag. Also, if you want your browser to trust a self-signed certificate, you will need to add it to your operating system (or browser's, in Firefox's case) root certificate store for your browser to trust it.
```

In most cases, the `--https` passed by itself is easier and more convenient to get local https.

---

> Automatic certificates issued with the `--https` flag are issued to `localhost` by default, unless you have used the `--host` flag. If you have, a record in your hosts file will automatically be configured to point the defined host to `127.0.0.1`. At this time, ip addresses defined by `--host` are not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatic certificates issued with the `--https` flag are issued to `localhost` by default, unless you have used the `--host` flag. If you have, a record in your hosts file, it will automatically be configured to point the defined host to `127.0.0.1`. At this time, ip addresses defined by `--host` are not supported.
```

Author: Should "a record in your hosts file, " be removed?

Author: About removing that phrase: this process is not contingent on there being a record in the hosts file, so saying "if you have a record in your hosts file, it will automatically be configured" wouldn't be accurate.

If we remove "a record in your hosts file, ", then "it" becomes kind of vague in this context... what is "it"?  If the goal is to make it a bit less technical, maybe it could read?
```diff
- If you have, it will automatically be configured
+ If you have, your device will automatically be configured
```

Author: @wardpeet any thoughts?
